# ACP

Advanced Communication Primitives (ACP) Library is designed to enable applications with sufficient inherent parallelism to achieve high scalability up to exa-scale computing systems, where the number of processes is expected to be more than a million.

As the performance of environments for high-performance computing (HPC) is approaching from peta to exa, the number of cores in one node is increasing, while the amount of memory per node is expected to remain almost the same. Therefore, reducing memory consumption has become an important issue for achieving sustained scalability toward exa-scale computers.
Especially, communication middleware on those environments must be carefully designed to achieve high memory efficiency. There is always a trade-off between the memory consumption and the performance of communication. To avoid conflicts of resources and achieve high performance, sufficient amount of buffers should be allocated. Therefore, appropriate control of the allocation and deallocation of buffers is a key to enable memory-efficient communications.
Approach

To minimize the requirements of memory consumption at the initialization, ACP Library provides RDMA model as the basic communication layer. On interconnect networks where RDMA is supported as a fundamental facility, this layer can be implemented with minimal memory consumption and overhead.
Since programming with RDMA needs detailed operations such as memory registrations, address exchanges and synchronizations, ACP also prepares some sets of programmer-friendly interfaces as the middle layer. To enable the library to consume just-enough amount of memory, each interface of the middle layer requires explicit allocation of the memory region before using it. This region can be explicitly de-allocated so that the memory region can be reused for other purposes.

Each of the interfaces of this middle layer is primitive and independent. For example, the channel interface in this layer only supports one-directional and in-order data transfer between a pair of processes. This helps to minimize the memory consumption and overhead in the implementation. Also, the independent interfaces enable precise control of the allocation and de-allocation of memory regions for them. At this point, interfaces of channels, vectors, lists and memory allocation are defined in ACP. There are plans for other interfaces such as group communications, deques, maps, sets and counters.
